Security Consideration revamp (#226)
ietf-rats-wg/draft-ietf-rats-msg-wrap: draft-ietf-rats-msg-wrap.md

## CMW Protection

> CMW Records, Tags and Collections alone don't offer authenticity, integrity protection, or confidentiality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CMW Records, Tags and Collections alone do not offer authenticity, integrity protection, or confidentiality.
```

{{crypto}} describes a number of methods that can be used to add cryptographic protection to CMW.

## Using Collection CMWs for Evidence of Composite or Layered Devices {#seccons-coll}

> When a Collection CMW is used to encapsulate Evidence for composite or layered attestation of a single device, all Evidence messages within the CMW must be cryptographically bound together to prevent an attacker from replacing Evidence from a compromised device with that from a non-compromised device.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When a Collection CMW is used to encapsulate Evidence for composite or layered attestation of a single device, all Evidence messages within the CMW MUST be cryptographically bound together to prevent an attacker from replacing Evidence from a compromised device with that from a non-compromised device.
```
?

Author: > Why couldn't a secure session, signed token, signed certificate, or other signed object suffice to ensure various parts of a CMW or collection of CMWs be used to prevent substitution attacks?

They could.  What in that sentence makes you think they are not allowed to?

Reviewer 3: > What in that sentence makes you think they are not allowed to?

I think is just the context of it being a single sentence that begins with "When a collection CMW is used..."  and includes "Evidence messages" presumably these could be a variety of structures including signed structures but ends with "CMW MUST be cryptographically bound" seems to say that if there are non-CMW "messages" inside a collection CMW, that they have to be cryptographically bound by a CMW structure. 

If the idea is that "the contents of a collection CMW have to be cryptographically bound to each other", then there is a simpler way to say it (as I just did).

Author: > > > Why couldn't a secure session, signed token, signed certificate, or other signed object suffice to ensure various parts of a CMW or collection of CMWs be used to prevent substitution attacks?
> >
> > What in that sentence makes you think they are not allowed to?

Also, note that the paragraph explicitly suggests that a possible binding method uses _”[…] external security measures (such as object security primitives)”_, so I am not sure I’m getting your original concern.

> I think is just the context of it being a single sentence that begins with "When a collection CMW is used..." and includes "Evidence messages”

Yes, but this is because the sentence starts the “Using Collection CMWs for Evidence of Composite or Layered Devices” section.

> presumably these could be a variety of structures including signed structures but ends with "CMW MUST be cryptographically bound" seems to say that if there are non-CMW "messages" inside a collection CMW,

Sorry, I can’t parse _non-CMW "messages" inside a collection CMW_: all the “messages” inside a `{cbor,json}-collection` are `{cbor-json}-cmw`.

> that they have to be cryptographically bound by a CMW structure.
> 
> If the idea is that "the contents of a collection CMW have to be cryptographically bound to each other", then there is a simpler way to say it (as I just did).

Yes, that generally applies.
However, this section discusses the use of CMW collections to ship composite attesters’ Evidence.  In doing so, it gives further clarification regarding the specific threat.  That’s where the added complexity comes frmo.

> When a Collection CMW is used to encapsulate Evidence for composite or layered attestation of a single device, all Evidence messages within the CMW must be cryptographically bound together to prevent an attacker from replacing Evidence from a compromised device with that from a non-compromised device.

Reviewer 3: Doesn't line 670 already say this but in a more succinct way?

Author: Yes, L673 concisely reiterates this.

> If the Collection CMW is not protected from tampering by external security measures (such as object security primitives) or internal mechanisms (such as intra-item binding), an attacker could manipulate the Collection's contents to deceive the Verifier into accepting bogus Evidence as genuine.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If the Collection CMW is not protected from tampering by external security measures (such as object security primitives) or internal mechanisms (such as intra-item binding), an attacker could manipulate the Collection's contents to accept unintended Evidence.
```

Reviewer 3: The verifier accepts all Evidence claims from the Attester. It doesn't mean they are genuine or trustworthy. Reference Values are used to corroborate evidence. If an unintended evidence claims appears but there isn't a corresponding reference claims, the verifier doesn't conclude that the evidence is either bogus or genuine only that it was asserted by the Attester and not corroborated by reference.

Author: > The verifier accepts all Evidence claims from the Attester. It doesn't mean they are genuine or trustworthy. Reference Values are used to corroborate evidence. If an unintended evidence claims appears but there isn't a corresponding reference claims, the verifier doesn't conclude that the evidence is either bogus or genuine only that it was asserted by the Attester and not corroborated by reference.

The case here is that of a composite device (A, B) whose evidence [a, b] has been tweaked by the attacker and reassembled as [a, b’], where b’ is evidence from a “good” device B’.  The verifier has a known-good-value for b’, which will allow it to corroborate evidence [a, b’].  The same verifier does not have a known-good-value for b (or has a known-bad-value for it), which would *not* corroborate the real evidence [a, b].

> Authenticity and integrity protection must be provided by the attestation technology.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Authenticity and integrity protection must be provided by the underlying attestation technology.
```

If the Collection CMW is not protected from tampering by external security measures (such as object security primitives) or internal mechanisms (such as intra-item binding), an attacker could manipulate the Collection's contents to deceive the Verifier into accepting bogus Evidence as genuine.

Authenticity and integrity protection is expected to be provided by the underlying attestation technology.
For example, key material used to sign/bind an entire Collection CMW should be an attestation key, handled as described in {{Section 12.1 of -rats-arch}}.
The binding does not necessarily have to be a signature over the Collection CMW, it might also be achieved through identifiers, cross-linking, signing or hashing between the members of the Collection.
It is the responsibility of the Attester who creates the Collection CMW to ensure that the contents of the Collection are integrity-protected.

## Integrating CMW into Protocols

> When CMW is integrated into a protocol (for example, attested CSR {{-csr-a}} or attested TLS {{-tls-a1}} {{-tls-a2}}), it is up to the "hosting" protocol to describe how CMW is intended to be used and how it fits into the overall security model.

Author: No, I don’t htink there’s any ambiguity.  “Hosting” is used to better characterise it.

> When CMW is integrated into a protocol (for example, attested CSR {{-csr-a}} or attested TLS {{-tls-a1}} {{-tls-a2}}), it is up to the "hosting" protocol to describe how CMW is intended to be used and how it fits into the overall security model.

Author: It is not strictly required.  It’s an editorial choice which helps to clarify which "protocol” we are talking about.

The flip question is: why are you so hung up on an adjective?  It's certainly not a definition; otherwise, it would have been capitalised and introduced in the glossary.

> When CMW is integrated into a protocol (for example, attested CSR {{-csr-a}} or attested TLS {{-tls-a1}} {{-tls-a2}}), it is up to the "hosting" protocol to describe how CMW is intended to be used and how it fits into the overall security model.

Reviewer 4: > It’s an editorial choice which helps to clarify which "protocol” we are talking about.

There is only one protocol under discussion. There is no ambiguity here. 
The addition of "hosting" adds more trouble than helping.

> When CMW is integrated into a protocol (for example, attested CSR {{-csr-a}} or attested TLS {{-tls-a1}} {{-tls-a2}}), it is up to the "hosting" protocol to describe how CMW is intended to be used and how it fits into the overall security model.

Reviewer 5: I'm afraid that I agree with Thomas here. The full context of the use of the word "hosting" is just one paragraph and thus not any addition to RATS terminology. Also the paragraph is not part of a normative requirement.

To be constructive here, Usama, propose alternate text. Maybe you have a better word, or you have a better way to write the paragraph.
